Parts of this exercise might feel silly.
That's okay.
Try to experience the activity
with a child-like curiosity.
Hold the raisin in between
your index finger and thumb.
Imagine
that you've never seen a raisin before
and give it your full attention.
Focus on its shape,
color and texture.
Start moving the raisin between your fingers.
Squeeze it a little and see how squishy
it is or isn't.
Maybe close your eyes to help you focus.
Now hold the raisin under your nose
and take a sniff.
What does it smell like?
Pop the raisin in your mouth.
Don't chew hold it in your mouth
for at least 10 seconds.
Explore it with your tongue.
Notice the texture and temperature.
What does it feel like
to wait before chewing?
When you're ready, start chewing.
Take one or two bites and give the taste
your full attention.
Take your time and don't swallow.
Notice the taste and texture of the raisin
in your mouth
and how it changes over time.
Now swallow
noticing the physical sensation.
How do you feel now,
and what would your life be like
if all of your meals were more like this?
You may think
this is a ridiculous amount of time
to give a piece of dried fruit.
Do you feel a little silly?
Is your mind wandering?
Acknowledge your feelings,
but don't get distracted
by them.
Remember, the purpose
of this type of mindfulness
activity is simply to help us practice
being curious observers
of what we are experiencing.
Just allow your experience
to be whatever it is.